CSC14003 | Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Lab
Lab
Hide and Seek Arena
1 Introduction
Project 1 – Hide and Seek Arena aims to help students understand, implement, and optimize
search algorithms through an automated arena that simulates the game of hide-and-seek, where
student teams can compete against one another for ranking.
Each student team will develop both of the following agents:
• Hide agent: Hide for as long as possible.
• Seek agent: Find and catch as quickly as possible.
The agents will be automatically matched in the Arena to compute win rates and rankings.
2 Arena
The Arena is an automated framework, implemented in Python, that serves as the competitive
environment for the agents. Given the teams’ submissions, the Arena will (1) automatically import
each team’s agents; (2) run a series of matches between teams; and (3) output the results.
Faculty of Information Technology, University of Science, VNU-HCM Page 1
CSC14003 | Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Lab
The model of the Arena is illustrated in Figure 1.
Figure 1: An overview of the Arena model.
Algorithm 1 Agent – Environment Interaction Loop
while episode not terminated do
ap ← PacmanAgent.step()
ag ← GhostAgent.step()
Environment.step(ap, ag)
Update agent positions
Check collisions or termination
s ← observe new environment state
end while
At each step in Algorithm 1, the provided information includes:
• A 21 × 21 map (where 0 indicates a traversable cell and 1 indicates a non-traversable cell).
• The current positions of the two agents.
• The current step count.
Note: Both agents receive the same state information and make their decisions simultaneously.
The win conditions are defined as follows:
• The Seek agent wins: if the Seek agent touches the Hide agent (Manhattan distance < 2).
• The Hide agent wins: if the maximum number of allowed steps is reached.
Please note that, the framework is provided to you for reference, evaluting your own agent
against the above conditions may require some tweakings.
Faculty of Information Technology, University of Science, VNU-HCM Page 2
CSC14003 | Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Lab
The source code will be provided to students with the following directory structure:
Arena/
src/ ......................................Framework source code (do NOT modify )
submissions/ ..................................................Student workspace
example student/
agent.py .............................................Reference implementation
student id/
agent.py ..............................................Student team’s agent
STUDENT GUIDE.md ...............................................Student instructions
run game.sh .........................................................Quick-run script
Important note: If both agents move at the same speed, the Seek Agent can never win
because it cannot make contact with the Hide Agent. To ensure the fairness, the Seek Agent
moves at a speed of 2 cells per step when moving in straight line but cannot move with an L-
shaped immediately during a turn.
At each step, a student team’s agent must return an action in the following format:
1 class A g e n t I n t e r f a c e ( ABC ) :
2 @ a b s t r a c t m e t h o d
3 def step ( self , map_state , my_position , enemy_position , s t e p _ n u m b e r ) :
4 # For Pacman Agent : return a Move or ( Move , steps ) , where :
5 # - steps is an int from 1 to the c o n f i g u r e d max straight - line speed .
6 # For Ghost Agent : return a Move ( UP , DOWN , LEFT , RIGHT , or STAY ) .
The recommended algorithms are summarized in Table 1.
Table 1: Suggested Algorithms for Seek and Hide Agents
Seek Agent Hide Agent
– Breadth-First Search (BFS)
– Depth-First Search (DFS)
– A*
– Greedy
– etc.
– BFS: finding the farthest position
– Minimax/Expectimax
– Monte Carlo
– Potential Fields
– etc.
Faculty of Information Technology, University of Science, VNU-HCM Page 3
CSC14003 | Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Lab
3 Tournament
Each team will participate in both roles, Hide and Seek, and will compete against the agents of
all other teams. Based on the outcomes, the win rates are computed as:
win ratehide = Hide wins
Hide games win rateseek = Seek wins
Seek games
The results are recorded in the following example table.
Table 2: Match Results Between Teams (Hide vs. Seek)
Hide \ Seek Team 1 Team 2 Team 3 Team 4
Team 1 – 0 1 1
Team 2 0 – 1 0
Team 3 1 0 – 1
Team 4 0 0 1 –
Here, a value of 0 denotes a Hide win, while a value of 1 denotes a Seek win.
Based on Table 2, an example of the win rates for Team 1 is as follows:
• As the Hide agent, Team 1 wins 1 out of 3 matches, resulting in win ratehide = 33.3%.
• As the Seek agent, Team 1 wins 2 out of 3 matches, resulting in win rateseek = 66.6%.
Note that, besides raw winning result, we also record your agent’s average steps required to
end each match. For Pacman, you should also minimize this value while for Ghost, you should
also maximize this value. In order to tie-breaking the teams with similar winning rate, we evaluate
their differences between Pacman’s and Ghost’s average steps where one with lower difference ranks
higher.
The scoring criteria for each team is defined as follows:
Criterion Score
Algorithm implementation completeness 3
Ranking in the initial submission (see timeline in Section 4) Up to 3
Ranking in the optimized submission (see timeline in Section 4) Up to 4
4 Submission
Each team must submit a single .zip file to Moodle containing the following directory structure
where group id denotes a single integer for your group’s ID only:
Faculty of Information Technology, University of Science, VNU-HCM Page 4
CSC14003 | Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Lab
group id/
agent.py
etc.
The submitted agent is allowed to import other files located within the same submission directory.
Note: Late submissions will not be accepted under any circumstances.
The submission timeline is specified as follows:
5 Notices
Please pay attention to the following notices:
• This is a GROUP assignment. Each group has 3 - 4 members.
Groups with fewer or more members than the specified limit require lab instructor approval.
• This project has two submission phases. Only teams that submitted in the first phase are
allowed to submit in the second phase.
• Student teams must ensure that their agent returns an action within a maximum of1 second.
The built-in "time" library may be used together with all built-in libraries bundled with
Python 3. External libraries available for your team includes: numpy, pandas, scipy, and
gurobi.
• AI tools are NOT restricted; however, students should use them wisely. Lab instructors
have the right to conduct additional oral interviews to assess their knowledge of the project.
• Any form of plagiarism, dishonesty, or misconduct will result in a grade of zero for the course.
The end.
Faculty of Information Technology, University of Science, VNU-HCM Page 5
